Open TOS VER1.0 System Requirements

Introduction
The initial version of the software will be aimed at servicing the needs of bulk handling facilities as this is the area of terminal operation where I have the most experience. I will then look to possibly built it out to include operations such as liquid bulk, break bulk, containers and roro cargo. I would also like to look at modifying the software so that it could also be used by inland cargo handling depots.

Functional Requirements
Functional requirements are those requirements that the software must meet in order to meet the business needs that gave rise to the software in the first place.

Add customers to the system - The system will hold a list of all of the customers that the terminal operator has, the operator will have the ability to add, update and remove customers.
Create a contract with a customer -  The terminal operator will be able to enter a contract with a customer, this will specify the vessel, whether it is import or export.
Subdivide the contract - The customer will then be able to subdivide the contract into instructions which each pertain to the customer of the operators customer.
Record the progress on the contract and subdivisions -  the system must be able to track the progress of the main contract as well as the progress of the various instructions.
Record the weigh in and weigh out of road trucks - The system must be able to record the individual transactions of road trucks as they either load or offload cargo at the terminal
Record the weigh in and weigh out of rail trucks -  the system must be able to record the individual transactions of rail trucks
Allow for pre booking of road trucks -  customers, consignees and transporters must be able to prebook road trucks.
Generate Invoice based off contract - based off the contract the handling fee and storage fee must automatically be calculated so that an invoice can be generated once the contract is complete.

Non-Functional Requirements
Non-functional requirements are those that are not core to the operation of the software.

System must have strict user level security
System must have client facing web access
System must have RESTFUL API for most functions to enable integration.


